# <a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-changes-to-make-alternating-binary-string" target="_blank">1758. Minimum Changes To Make Alternating Binary String</a>

## Description

You are given a string `s` consisting only of the characters `'0'` and `'1'`. In one operation, you can change any `'0'` to `'1'` or vice versa.

The string is called alternating if no two adjacent characters are equal. For example, the string `"010"` is alternating, while the string `"0100"` is not.

Return the minimum number of operations needed to make `s` alternating.

### Example 1:

<b>Input:</b> s = "0100"

<b>Output:</b> 1

<b>Explanation:</b> If you change the last character to '1', s will be "0101", which is alternating.

## My Solution

### Approach

My first idea was that after we executed all the change operations we will result in either an alternated string that starts with `'1'` or an alternated string that starts with `'0'`.

So I created an algorithm that iterates through the string and checks if each character is correct for either a string that starts with `'1'` or a string that starts with `'0'`, if the character doesn't
match the expected result the `startsWithOne` or `startsWithZero` counter is increased by one.

A boolean value called `isOdd` is used to indicate if we are in a odd or even position in the string so we know what character we need to match.

### Code

```javascript

/**
 * @param {string} s
 * @return {number}
 */
var minOperations = function(s) {
    let isOdd = true
    let startsWithZero = 0
    let startsWithOne = 0


    for(c of s){
        if(c === '0'){
            if(isOdd){
                startsWithZero++
                isOdd = !isOdd
            }

            else {
                startsWithOne++
                isOdd = !isOdd
            }
        }

        else if (c === '1'){
            if(isOdd){
                startsWithOne++
                isOdd = !isOdd
            }

            else {
                startsWithZero++
                isOdd = !isOdd
            }
        }
    }
    
    return Math.min(startsWithZero, startsWithOne)
};

```

### Complexity

<ul>
  <li>Time complexity: The time complexity is O(n), where n is the length of the input string.</li>
  <li>Space complexity: The space complexity is O(1) as we are using a constant amount of space.</li>
</ul>

## Can it be improved

Comparing my solution to the other ones uploaded on LeetCode I didn't notice much differences in the adopted approach.
